#Captive portal supporting multiple uplink providers


= Introduction =

This project aims at creating a captive portal framework mainly for public wireless networks. The portal supports multiple uplink providers. It is mainly based on iptables and a web application.


= Contact =

Google Code Site: http://code.google.com/p/opencaptiveportal/

SWITCH PWLAN Site: http://www.switch.ch/mobile/pwlan/


= Goal and Idea =

Mark packets with iptables so that the are routed through different GRE 
Tunnels to the according (commercial) WLan Internet Service Provider (WISP).

If you are searching for a commercial supported version, please see
http://www.wlan-partner.com/hotspot-loesungen/wlan-access-portal/
    
For contacting use please use the E-Mail addresses from the Google Code Project.

The OpenCaptivePortal Software should run on a GNU/Linux Box, which is
interconnected to a Docking Network at a University in Switzerland. See the
picture OpenCaptivePortal.png. The Box with the OpenCaptivePortal (OCP)
should achieve the ollowing objectives:

 * Acces from the Docking Network (e.g. public WLan) the selected resources
   # VPN Router of the local University
   # All other VPN Router of Swiss Universities as definied in the SWITCHconnect Classic ACL (Accesslist), which you can find under: http://www.switch.ch/mobile/classic/
   # Commercial ISPs (WISP): If a user wants to establish a connections via a WISP, he must visit the landingpage of the OCP and choose a WISP. Each WISP has a iFrame on this landingpage. If the user clicks on an iFrame the OCP should route all following traffic from this user through a GRE Tunnel to the specific WISP.
   # iPass offers users the possibility to automatically connect to an WLan (this is a TODO, please see the TODO file).
   # Event Login, e.g. a simple login formular on the landingpage where guest on events can login in (without vpn oder WISP login), see TODO.
 * IPv4 (IPv6 planned)


= Services/Daemons and installation =

See [Services]